[uss_qualifer] Scenario documentation with 1 testcase for testing SCD0080 (#485)
interuss/monitoring: monitoring/uss_qualifier/scenarios/astm/utm/subscription_notifications/receive_notifications_for_awareness/receive_notifications_for_awareness.md

# Awareness of relevant operational intents test scenario

## Description

When a USS submits an operational intent to DSS, a subscription is associated with that operational intent in DSS.
This subscription can be either an implicit or explicit subscription that covers the area of the operational intent.
The subscription helps the USS to be notified of new or modified operations in the area, when its operational intent is in
Activated, NonConforming and Contingent state. In this scenario, we will verify that USS under test has a subscription
to cover the operational intent area, and receives relevant notifications from other USSes.

- **[astm.f3548.v21.SCD0080](../../../../../requirements/astm/f3548/v21.md)**

This scenario assumes that the area used in the scenario is already clear of any pre-existing flights (using, for instance, PrepareFlightPlanners scenario).

## Resources

### flight_intents

> FlightIntentsResource provides flight_1_* variations with modification to extend its area and state.
> It also provides flight_2_* variations that do not intersect with flight_1_* , but their convex hulls intersect.
> There is an overlap of time and altitude of flight_1_* with flight_2_* .
> This makes the associated flights relevant to each other.
> flight_2* is modified in area or time range to trigger notifications.
> flight_2_area2 intersects with flight_1_extended_area_activated.
> There is an overlap of time and altitude of flight_2* with flight_1_*.
> 
> <table>
> <tr> <th>Flight Intent Id</th>	<th>Flight name in doc</th>  <th> State </th>	<th> Must be relevant, but not intersecting </th></tr>
> 
> <tr> <td><code>flight_1_planned</code></td>	<td>Flight 1</td>  <td> Accepted </td>	<td> - </td></tr>
> <tr> <td><code>flight_1_activated</code></td>	<td>Flight 1</td>  <td> Activated </td>	<td> flight_2 </td></tr>
> <tr> <td><code>flight_2</code></td>	<td>Flight 2</td>  <td> Accepted </td>	<td> flight_1_* </td></tr>
> 
> </table>

Reviewer: Here is a suggestion on how to modify this section. Notable changes:
- Have a table for describing flight intents consistent with other scenarios, and that ideally is self-contained.
- Use the description only to explain/clarify the specificity of this scenario.
- Consistent naming for Flight 2 ID.
- Mention of how to handle activated intents.

```suggestion
FlightIntentsResource that provides the following flight intents:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Flight intent ID</th>
        <th>Flight name</th>
        <th>State</th><!-- TODO: Update with usage_state and uas_state when new flight planning API is adopted -->
        <th>Must be relevant, but not intersecting</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>flight_1_planned</code></td>
        <td rowspan="2">Flight 1</td>
        <td>Accepted</td>
        <td rowspan="2">Flight 2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>flight_1_activated</code></td>
        <td>Activated</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>flight_2_planned</code></td>
        <td>Flight 2</td>
        <td>Accepted</td>
        <td>Flight 1</td>
    </tr>
</table>

To reach a situation where Flight 1 and Flight 2 do not intersect but are relevant to each other:
- their time ranges and altitudes do intersect;
- their geometries do not intersect, but their convex hulls do.

Because the scenario involves activation of intents, all activated intents must be active during the execution of the test scenario. Additionally, their end time must leave sufficient time for the execution of the test scenario. For the sake of simplicity, it is recommended to set the start and end times of all the intents to the same range.
```

Notifications of relevant flights will be sent to tested_uss using this subscription id.

### Mock_uss plans Flight 2 test step

#### [Plan Flight 2](../../../../flight_planning/plan_flight_intent.md)

The test driver successfully plans Flight 2 via the mock uss, as there is no conflict with Flight 1.
However, because they are relevant to each other mock_uss will send Flight 2 notification to tested_uss.

#### [Validate Flight 2 sharing](../../validate_shared_operational_intent.md)

### [Validate Flight 2 notification received by tested_uss test step](../test_steps/validate_notification_received.md)

Check a notification was received by tested_uss for Flight 2, with Flight 1's subscription_id.

## Modify Activated operational intent area and receive notification of relevant intent test case

### ToDo

## Declare Operational intent non-conforming and receive notification of relevant intent test case

### ToDo

## Declare Operational intent contingent and receive notification of relevant intent test case

### ToDo

## Cleanup

### Successful flight deletion check

> This flights are cleaned up at the end of the test scenario.

Reviewer: "This flights"?

The subscription helps the USS to be notified of new or modified operations in the area, when its operational intent is in
Activated, NonConforming and Contingent state. In this scenario, we will verify that USS under test has a subscription
to cover the operational intent area, and receives relevant notifications from other USSes.

- **[astm.f3548.v21.SCD0080](../../../../../requirements/astm/f3548/v21.md)**

This scenario assumes that the area used in the scenario is already clear of any pre-existing flights (using, for instance, PrepareFlightPlanners scenario).

## Resources
### flight_intents
FlightIntentsResource provides flight_1_* variations with modification to extend its area and state.
It also provides flight_2_* variations that do not intersect with flight_1_* , but their convex hulls intersect.
There is an overlap of time and altitude of flight_1_* with flight_2_* .
This makes the associated flights relevant to each other.
flight_2* is modified in area or time range to trigger notifications.
flight_2_area2 intersects with flight_1_extended_area_activated.
There is an overlap of time and altitude of flight_2* with flight_1_*.

> <table>

Reviewer: Resolving this comment, the part about which test data to use can be addressed during implementation.

<tr> <td>flight_1_contingent</td>	<td>flight1</td>  <td> Contingent </td>	<td> flight_2_time_range_c </td></tr>
<tr> <td>flight_2</td>	<td>flight2</td>  <td> Accepted </td>	<td> flight_1_* </td></tr>
<tr> <td>flight_2_area2</td>	<td>flight2m</td>  <td> Accepted </td>	<td> flight_1_extended_area_* </td></tr>
<tr> <td>flight_2_time_range_*</td>	<td>flight2m</td>  <td> Accepted </td>	<td> flight_1_* </td></tr>

</table>

### mock_uss
MockUSSResource will be used for planning flights in order to send notifications to tested_uss, and gathering interuss interactions from mock_uss.

### tested_uss
FlightPlannerResource that will be used for the USS being tested for its ability to maintain awareness of operational intent.

### dss
DSSInstanceResource that provides access to a DSS instance where flight creation/sharing can be verified.

## Activated operational intent receives notification of relevant intent test case

![Test case summary illustration](assets/flight1_flight2_.svg)

This test case verifies that relevant notifications are received through subscription of an operational intent in Activated state.

> ### Tested_uss plans flight1 test step

Reviewer: For the sake of simplicity: this step and the next one may be merged into a single step, with a single validation of the sharing at the end.

#### [Plan flight1](../../../../flight_planning/plan_flight_intent.md)
flight1 should be successfully planned by the control USS.

#### [Validate flight1 sharing](../../validate_shared_operational_intent.md)

### Activate flight1 test step

#### [Activate flight1](../../../../flight_planning/activate_flight_intent.md)
flight1 should be successfully activated by the tested USS.

#### [Validate flight1 sharing](../../validate_shared_operational_intent.md)

#### Retrieve the subscription id for flight1 test step fragment
A subscription would be associated with flight1 in DSS.
Notifications will be sent to tested_uss using the subscription id of this subscription.
While checking notifications received by tested_uss, we can verify if the notification used this subscription id.

### Mock_uss plans flight2 test step

#### [Plan flight2](../../../../flight_planning/plan_flight_intent.md)
The test driver successfully plans flight2 via the mock uss, as there is no conflict with flight1.
However, because they are relevant to each other mock_uss will send flight2 notification to tested_uss.

#### [Validate flight2 sharing](../../validate_shared_operational_intent.md)

> ### [Validate flight2 notification received by tested_uss test step](../test_steps/validate_notification_received.md)

Reviewer: It may makes sense to define this as a step fragment and not as a separate step, since there is no mutation whatsoever done, we are just checking that something has been done.

Reviewer: Yes you are correct, sorry for the noise.
